Hello again! In this video, we are going to look at using promises when there are multiple waiting
threads.
We have learned how to write applications where there is one producer thread and one consumer thread, but
there are many applications where you need to have a single producer thread and multiple consumers.
We cannot do this with std::future because only one consumer can get the value from the producer.
The future class is designed so that it has exclusive access to the shared state with the promise.
Future instances cannot be copied for the same reason that unique pointers cannot be copied.
If more than one thread calls get() on the same future, then there is a data race because multiple threads
are accessing the same shared state and there is modification occurring.
C++ provides a shared underscore future, which is similar to a shared underscore pointer.
You can have multiple copies, which each have a reference to the same shared state.
And it also synchronizes the access to that shared state.
So this allows multiple consumers to wait for a result from a producer thread.
Typically, we would make a copy so that each thread has its own instance.
And provided we are doing it on different copies, we can call get() repeatedly.
As with the future class, we do not normally create a shared future instance directly.
Usually we have a future object which we convert to a shared future.
We can either use move to move it into the shared future,
or we can call the share() member function of the future,
which will return a shared future object.
And we can also obtain a shared future directly from the promise.
If we call get_future(), that will return a future which can be moved into the shared future instance.
Then to write a program which has multiple consumers, we have the same producer function as before.
The consumer function is the same as before, except we need to use a shared future instead of a regular
future.
In the main() function, we create the promise instance.
Then we create a shared future for each consumer thread.
Then we start up the consumer threads with those shared futures as argument, and we can start up the producer
thread,
and of course we need to join at the end.
So let's try this code out. As usual, I have added some print statements so we can see what is going on.
We are going to have multiple consumer threads printing output at the same time.
So I have also put a lock guard to avoid the output getting scrambled up.
So we see the consumer threads run. They call get() and wait for the producer. Then the producer does
its thing.
And then the consumer threads return from calling get() and they have the answer, 42, then
they print it out.
OK, so that's it for this video.
A nice short one!
I'll see you next time.
But meanwhile, keep coding!